SAP:
    'Systeme, Anwendungen und Produkte in der Datenverarbeitung' or 'Systems, Applications and Products in data processing'.
    SAP systems are used by enterprises to take care of all of its business related processes.

    ABAP:
        Is a programming language used to develop applications in SAP systems.
        ABAP (Allgemeiner Berichts Aufbereitungs Prozessor) means 'General Report-Consolidating Processor'
        'Processador de Criação de Relatórios Gerais', and an acronym for 'Advanced Business Application Programming'.
        Different from other languages, ABAP was specifically developed to be used only in SAP systems.
    
    There are many SAP products (e.g. CRM, BI, HR, PLM, SCM, ...) but the mostly known is 'SAP ERP' or 'SAP ECC'.
    Understanding how an SAP ERP system woks is vital to understanding ABAP programming.

    SAP ECC/ERP' Full name:
        SAP
        ERP  (Enterprise Resource Planning)
        ECC  (Enterprise Central Component)
        X.X  (Version)
        EhPX (Enhancement Package)

    SAP ERP historical overview:
        1972 - SAP R/1 ('Real-time data processing')
        197X - SAP R/2 (Presentation and Application layers)
        1992 - SAP R/3 1.0; 2.0; 3.1i; 4.0B (Presentation, Application adnd Database layers)
        2001 - SAP R/3 4.6D Web Application Server / (Basis)
        2002 - SAP R/3 Enterprise 4.7 / Web Application Server 6.2
        2003 - mySAP ERP / Web Application Server 6.3
        2004 - mySAP ERP / ECC 5.0 / NetWeaver / Web Application Server 6.4
        2005 - ERP-ECC 6.0 / Web Applicatio Server 7.0 / NetWeaver 2004s/7
        ...  -
        2015 - NetWeaver 7.5
        2016 - EHP 8

Typical business activities:
    SALES department
        Captures customer orders
    MATERIALS
        Procures raw materials from diffenent vendors, based on the order
    PRODUCTION
        Manufacture or assemble the product from the raw materials
    LOGISTICS
        Delivers the product to the customer adress captured while creating the order
    FINANCE
        Manages accounts

    Non-ERP business uses different databases for each department of an organization:
        SALES      - Sales DATABASE
        MATERIALS  - Materials DATABASE
        PRODUCTION - Production DATABASE
        LOGISTICS  - Logistics DATABASE
        FINANCE    - Finance DATABASE

        In this model, all departments rely on information from each other to  complete a business transaction.
        Not in real time.

    ERP software integrates various functions of a business. Typically it implements a common database?
        SALES      - | D    |
        MATERIALS  - | A  B |
        PRODUCTION - | T  A |
        LOGISTICS  - | A  S |
        FINANCE    - |    E |

        Real time data access.
        Enables automation.
            e.g. errors when user enters delivery date that can't be made.
        Accurate delivery update.
        Database consists of thousands of tables, usable by any application.

SAP Modules:
    Are called the business functions in SAP.
    Functional Modules:
        FI - Financial Accounting
        CO - Controlling
        SD - Sales and Distribution
        MM - Materials Management
        HR - Human Resourse
        PM - Plant Maintenance
        PP - Production Planning
        ...

    Technical Modules
        ABAP
        Basis
        BusinessObjects Business Inteligence (BI) / Business Warehouse (BW)
        Exchange Infrastructure (XI) / Process Integration (PI)
        Enterprise Portal
        HANA
        ...

Types of users:
    End users:
        Who use the SAP system in a production environment to carry their day-to-day activities.
    Consultants:
        Subject matter experts who help to customize and maintain SAP systems.
        The consultant's area of expertise determines if he is a functional or a technical one.

Role of an ABAP Consultant:
    Despite a good understanding of the business processes helps to code, it isn't absolutely necessary.
    As ABAP devs, we don't usually interact with end users directly.
    
    Functional consultants valuate the customer requirement and decide if it requires technical changes.
    If so, the functional Center of Excelence (CoE) assign a task to the ABAP CoE:
        Functional consultant:
            Prepare a functional requirement document explaining the requirement and listing
            all the essential information to make the changes needed in the application.
                e.g. User asks for some extra information to be shown in a report output:
                        the functional specification will provide the required information, such as:
                        name of the report
                        program that should be changed
                        database tables where the extra information can be found to show in the report output.
    Functional specification Received by the ABAP CoE is assigned to an ABAP consultant.
        ABAB consultant:
            Prepare a technical specification based on the functional specification:
                The technical specification capture the required changes from a technical perspective
            Make the necessary changes to the application.
            The application will be tested by the functional consultant and user in Quality Assurance environment.
    
    Typical work:
        Production support: Fixing bugs
        Enhancements: enhance the applciation to provide added functionality
        New projects: develop new applications
    
    Changing and Adapting Data Structure
        SAP software is delivered with standard SAP applications and configurations.
        However, every company may have its company-specific requirements:
            This is called 'customization'. There are 3 types:
                Modification:
                    Standard SAP is modified.
                Customer enhancement:
                    Standard SAP applications are enhanced without changing the standard source code.
                Customer development:
                    Customers develop applications in SAP system.
