Steps to create a simple table:

1. Access SE11 transaction.
2. With 'database table' radio button selected, choose a table name and click 'Create'. (e.g. 'ZMOTOS').
3. Provide a short description. (e.g. 'Motorcycle data').
4. Choose a Delivery Class: (e.g. 'A', from Application table, for master and transactional data)
5. In Delivery and Maintenance tab:
      Choose Data Browser/Table View Maint. (e.g. 'Display/Maintenance Allowed with Restrictions').
6. In Fields tab:
      Name a field, name a Data Element and double click on it:
          It pop up a message box asking to create the Data Element: click Yes:
              Provide a short description.
              In Data Type tab:
                  Choose a predefined Type or create a Domain:
                      Name the domain and double click on it:
                          It pop up a message box asking to create the Data Element: click Yes
                              Provide a short description of the Domain,
                      In Definition tab:
                          Set a Data Type, No. Characters, Output Lenght,
                          Activate it.
7. In Technical Settings:
       In General Properties tab:
          Set a Data Class: e.g. 'APPL0' for master data, transparent tables,
          Set a Size Category: e.g. '0' for up to 5.100 data records.
       In DB-Specific Properties:
          Set Storage Type: e.g. 'Undefined'
8. When Saving it asks to attribute the table to a package, or save it as local object.
      It also pop up a Workbench request screen, choose or create a crequest.
      Information: Application table should be client-specific
9. When activating it asks for Enhancement Category, select one in 'extras' menu.


POPULATING A TABLE
Three basic example ways to populate a table:

1. Go to SE16n:
        Type the table name in 'table to be searched' and press f8.
        Insert a row if you have permission.

2. If you don't have permission to add new lines, in SE16n:
        Type the table name in 'table to be searched'.
        Type '/h' in the SAP GUI command field and press f8. It will enter the debug mode.
            In 'Variables 1' tab, type the 'GD-EDIT' variable and set its value to 'X'.
            Also set the 'GD-SAPEDIT' variable value to 'X'.
            Now the buttons to add new lines in the table will be available.

3. Create a program with a selection screen in which the user can add data.
   (See Z_MOTOCAS.ABAP as example)
            